ArgoCD, CI CD Pipeline: set up a fully automated CD pipeline for kubernetes config changes

ArgoCD, continious delivery gitops tool for kubernetes

Manifests: YAML files defining Kubernetes resources like Deployments, services

Nodes are the physical or virtual machines where Kubernetes runs your workloads

Master Node: Runs the control plane components, including the API server, scheduler,
 and core resource controllers. This node manages the worker nodes and the Pods within them.

Worker Nodes: These nodes run the actual applications in containers. Each worker node has a Kubelet,
 which is an agent for managing the node and communicating with the Kubernetes control plane.

When using Docker images to deploy applications on Kubernetes, like the wil42/playground images you found on Docker Hub,
 you typically need configuration files like Deployment and Service manifests to manage how these images are run and accessed
 within your Kubernetes cluster

Kubernetes resources such as Deployments and Services. These resources define and control how your application
 (in this case, represented by a Docker containerized app) runs and interacts within the Kubernetes environment.
 The Deployment object is responsible for managing the application instances (pods), and the Service object is used to expose
 the application to network traffic. Both of these help orchestrate the application's deployment and accessibility in a cluster.

Determining the Need for Deployment and Service YAML Files 
 Deployment Requirement:
    Purpose: Ensures that a specified number of pod replicas running your containerized application are up and available at all times.
        Why Needed: If you want Kubernetes to manage the availability and scaling of wil42/playground application, you need a Deployment.

 Service Requirement:
    Purpose: Provides a stable interface to access the running containers over a network.
        Why Needed: If you want to expose your application (wil42/playground) to be accessible either internally within the cluster or externally, you need a Service.

Application:In the context of Kubernetes and Argo CD, an application refers to a set of definitions that describe an
 application’s resources. Argo CD will manage these resources based on manifests stored in a Git repository. 

-"replicas" refers to the number of copies of a pod that you want running in your cluster to ensure availability and scalability.

-sudo k3d cluster create IoT -p "8888:30080"
 The mapping "8888:30080" allows you to access services running within your Kubernetes cluster (on port 30080)
 via port 8888 on your local machine. For example, if you have a web application running inside your cluster and
 it's set to expose port 30080, you can access it by navigating to http://localhost:8888 on your host machine.

-Why Port Mapping?
 In Kubernetes, services inside the cluster (like those running in pods) often listen on specific ports. By default,
 these ports are only accessible within the cluster network. If you want to access a service from outside the Kubernetes cluster,
 such as from your own computer or another server, you need a way to expose these services.

-sudo k3d cluster list:
    list all the clusters managed by k3d on your system

-sudo kubectl get namespaces

-sudo kubectl get pod -n argocd
-sudo kubectl get svc -n argocd:
    argocd-server which is accessible in http and https ports
    we gonna use kubectl portforward to access this service(argocd-server) and make it availbale locally on port 8080

-sudo kubectl get svc:
    name: kubernetes
    type: clusterIp